Let's cover some Basic Terms.
Needs-High level business requirements of the users and
stakeholders in the problem or business domain.
An example: sales are anticipated to grow 50% and therefore a new system
to process sales orders is required for scalability.
These needs were captured in your Product Definition Template
or user stories that we covered in Module 1.
Features-describe features the system will do for its users
and the benefits the user will derive.
In the user's own words, such as user stories and use cases.
Example: provide a way for a district manager to
order for each store in his district.
Your role is to understand and interpret user's needs,
the key drivers in the business domain, and develop the user stories,
use cases, and feature list that reflect those needs.
What's different now in an Agile environment is
that this is where you will pause,
and not continue with more detailed requirements such as prototype,
until possibly later.
Basic Terms, Part 2.
Software Requirements-specific technical requirements.
An Example: a screen or form design to order parts.
This is part of your job, but it's not important at this time,
and will come into play later in the Agile process.
Product backlog.
Example: A list of features in priority order with rough estimated hours.
One long list.
At this time you 'translated' your user stories and use
cases into easy-to-understand features.
Each feature will have a 'level of effort' to implement, such as hours.
Now that you have one long list of features, what's next?
The Product Backlog.
The Product Backlog-is the term used to represent the list of
system features that have not been implemented.
The Product Manager, the key stakeholder we discussed in previous modules,
will prioritize each feature.
A key factor in this decision making process is the estimate
for each feature or group of features.
Create estimates by collaborating with the software team or other
subject matter experts; this is imperative.
Now, let's look at a simple example.
The Product Backlog-An Example.
In this example, the Product Manager has prioritized his list of 12 features.
Along with each feature is an estimate of hours to implement.
For example, item #3 is Feature C, and is 120 hours.
Estimates are essential in providing an indicator of business value.
In this example we used hours as a unit of measure for our estimates,
but you could use an even simpler method such as small,
medium, and large.
Creating a Release Roadmap.
So, now that we have a list of features, how are we going to proceed?
By a Product Release Roadmap.
Roadmaps are plans for implementation based on the product backlog.
This should be simple and easy to understand by all stakeholders.
A Roadmap consists of a series of planned release dates,
each with a list of prioritized features,
which is good, because now you have the full list.
This is your team's plan of intent, (of course) things could change,
remember requirements are unpredictable.
A Release.
An Agile project consists of several releases.
A release is typically a time-boxed increment where
the due date and quality is fixed, but the scope is variable.
Time box.
A preset amount of time and resources to implement a release.
For example, 3 weeks with 4 people might translate to 480 hours of effort,
3 weeks x 4 x 40.
An Agile Project-An Example.
Before we create the Product Backlog Roadmap,
let's quickly put it into context of an Agile Project.
An Agile Project consists of a series of releases; note the arrows.
Prior to beginning,
the roadmap planning activity occurs reviewing the product backlog.
When an Agile Project is complete,
there is a project wrap up (like a lessons learned).
Okay, now let's see how we develop our Release Roadmap.
Release Roadmap-An Example.
Here is our familiar Agile Project diagram.
In this example, the roadmap release planning activity defined three releases.
Release 1 will cover Features A, B, C, D,
and be contained in a 480-hour time-box due on July 1.
In this simple example, we have to find two more releases,
each with a due date and a time-box of hours.
Hence,
this Agile Project will have three releases planned for
this set of prioritized features.
Now that you know that Release 1 contains the high priority items,
you can proceed with more detailed requirements analysis.
Release Planning and Iterations.
Here is our basic Agile diagram,
and an example of how you would approach further
requirements gathering in this release.
Releases may consist of iterations.
Iteration 1 is you, the business analyst,
leveraging the practical tools we learned in module 2 to flush
out the remaining detail specifications,
such as Workflows, Prototypes, Mockups, Etc.
Iteration 2, 3, or more, is the software engineering portion of this release.
While software is being developed for this release,
you could then be working on release 2, iteration 1's remaining details specifications.